h

l

y

ful

Lif

e

Us e
&

Qu

ick

T i p s Fo r A

He

alt

Let The Healing
Begin!

Dear reader,
in today’s society we are constantly being exposed to the
craziness of the world we are living in – this eventually leads
us to forget who we are and struggle with everything that
surrounds us.
With this mini-book we aim to give you an insight into modern
day living, increase your awareness, help you to improve
yourself in managing your daily life in a healthier way with
simple steps to follow.
In this book you will find an accumulation of information
regarding different health & wellbeing approaches. The
information that will be provided has been entwined together
by The LifeCo and its founder Ersin Pamuksuzer through their
experiences and search for holistic health and living.
We hope that the book proves to be useful and informative in
guiding you on a never ending journey to optimum health and
wellness.

THE LIFECO’S FOUNDER, ERSIN
PAMUKSUZER’S JOURNEY TO A
BETTER LIFE
Ersin Pamuksüzer was so impressed with the benefits of
detoxing that he wanted to share it with the world. After 20
successful years in the fast-paced business world, then 46
year-old founder of The LifeCo started looking for a new way
of living when he joined his first detoxification program in
2002. He was fascinated with how much better he looked and
felt after the program; he experienced increased energy, loss
of excess weight, clearer eyes and skin, better sleep, easier
digestion, improved mood and clearer state of mind. He
started to explore holistic health and wellbeing philosophies
around the world, practice Vipassana meditation, visit
wellness centers and study various wellness disciplines.
He then incorporated what he has learned throughout his
explorations into his daily life.

6

He wanted to find a way to incorporate his new healthier
choices into his life without having to isolate himself from
his family, friends and society. He realized that he could
make noticeable changes in the way he felt and his level of
health with minor adjustments to his eating, thinking and
exercising habits, and his environment. He told his family and
friends, who in return told their families and friends. By word
of mouth this wellness concept gained so much popularity
that he decided to form a company to share his experiences
and resources with other people interested in discovering a
healthier way of life.

Information in this booklet is informative in nature and should
never be construed or interpreted as a substitute for medical
advice. None of the information is intended to be instructional
and should not be considered or used for a medical diagnosis
or treatment.
If you are taking any medications, please consult your doctor,
healthcare professional or nutritionist in order to avoid
complications while introducing a new lifestyle including
detoxing and using nutritional supplements.
Special thanks to everyone who have played a part in the
betterment of my understanding of optimum health;
including all the good souls throughout the history who have
contributed in shedding light to the path of optimum living.
Thanks to people who have helped preparing the mini-book
that you are now reading. Alphabetically; Alana Panton,
Anjeza Aksu, Beril Yilmaz, Cem Gurgen, Guliz Altinbasak,
Simay Yeral and all TheLifeCo family.

Ersin Pamuksüzer

7

Content Guide

Introduction

1-7

Contents

8-9

The Mismatch

10 - 17

Products vs Nutrition

18 - 32

The Mind & Mindfulness

33 - 47

Mindset

48 - 63

Movement

64 - 69

Environment

70 - 77

Introduction to Healing

78 - 106

Healthy Recipies

107 - 113

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

QUALITY OF LIFE
OPTIMUM HEALTH

WELLNESS GAP = MISMATCH

AGE
20

30

40

50

60

70

RICHARD

SELENA

ANTHONY

MIRANDA

MISMATCH AREAS CAUSING THE WELLNESS GAP
• Food
• Mind
• Movement
• Environment
10

90

Quality of Life &
The Mismatch
‘’Well-being’’ is achieving the highest level of life quality
and maintaining it in order to enjoying your life with
optimum vitality and functionality.
OPTIMUM HEALTH =THE BEST POSSIBLE LEVEL OF
HEALTH A PERSON CAN ACHIEVE
Achieving well-being can be challenging as you have to have a
balance of:
• Physical wellness
• Mental wellness
• Environmental wellness
The chart indicates that people are all living far under their
optimum life qualities. We call the gap between the optimum
health line and actual life curve of the person in question the
“wellness gap” in another words “healing potential”.
This book’s aim is to provide you with tips on how to reduce
this gap as much as possible. The gap exists due to the
mismatch in our lives- namely in the areas of food, mind,
exercise and environment, therefore we will mainly focus on
these areas.
11

LIVING IN THE 21st CENTURY
The world we are living in is different to the one we are actually
supposed to be living in. We eat products instead of food. We live
under the pressure of neverending task lists and deadlines causing
neverending stress. We sit instead of moving, although it is naturally
required from our bodies. Furthermore, we live in a man made
world; full of poisons and chemicals are detached from nature.

MISMATCH
HUMAN AS
ORIGINALLY DESIGNED

HUMAN IN 21. CENTURY

NUTRITIOUS
FOODS

PRODUCTS

CALM

STRESSED

NATURAL
ENVIRONMENT

DYNAMIC
LIFESTYLE

MAN MADE
ENVIRONMENT

SEDENTARY
LIFESTYLE

AS A RESULT WE FIND OURSELVES LIVING IN A DEFECTED
WORLD OCCUPIED WITH PHYSICAL, MENTAL AND
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES. WE END UP SPENDING OUR LIVES NOT
ABLE TO ACHIEVE OUR OPTIMUM LIFE QUALITY.
12

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

MISMATCH IN THE AREAS OF FOOD, MIND, MOVEMENT,
ENVIRONMENT
Food has lost its purpose and became a type of entertainment
and element of toxicity. People are living on processed food
instead of eating nourishing food, which acts a constant
burden to our body and health.
We were supposed to be born into a life with limited number
of triggers, all of which the body and mind would be able to
cope with. However, in the 21st century’s world there are at
least 600 or more triggers per day awaiting to be faced by us.
These triggers are the factors making up what we call the
‘chronic stress’.
In today’s world we spend most of our time being lethargic;
sitting for hours, using escalators, elevators, laying on the sofa
watching TV, driving everywhere and hardly ever walking or
exercising. Whereas, nature requires us to move in order to
survive.
We now live in a polluted and toxic nature and social
environment consisting of many buildings and little green.
Overwhelmed with information, news, and social media - day
by day we move further away from the nature.

13

The Mismatch
Mismatch causes deficiency, toxemia and chronic stress. Eventually
these 3 outcomes reduce our life qualities, cause burn out syndrome
and increase the possibility of occurrence of chronic diseases.

MISMATCH
DEFICIENCY

LOW LIFE
QUALITY

TOXAEMIA

CHRONIC STRESS

BURN OUT
SYNDROME

CHRONIC
STRESS

Chronic diseases are the primary cause of deaths in the world,
representing %93 of all deaths. The remaining 7% of deaths are
caused by natural reasons.

14

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

DEFICIENCY
The body needs specific nutritional input in order to operate
and function. However the state of deficiency occurs when
nutrition needs of body are not met with.Therefore, body
can’t produce the energy needed and tissues can’t form as
they naturally would do. In the state of deficiency the body
becomes weak and vulnerable to chronic diseases.
Today, in most food products nutrition we assume to be
obtaining undergoes deterioration due to commercialization,
lengthening shelf times, production techniques and cooking.
Despite being consumed enough; due to the changes in the
foods content, we can’t get most of the nutritional elements
from the food we eat. This is one of the factors deceiving us;
even though we eat more than enough we don’t get sufficient
nutrients and continue to be hungry.

15

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

TOXAEMIA
Toxins, which pollute the environment and nature, are in
fact one of the outcomes of people’s senseless search for a
modern life.
There are two main reasons that toxins gather in the body:
•
•

Body’s exposure to unnatural environmental toxins in
food, air and water.
Inability to excrete as much as necessary toxins because
of unhealthy personal habits, tiredness and a weakened
nervous system.

These reasons lead to Toxaemia. Illnesses occur because
there is extra toxicity in the body. The extra toxicity
counterworks the body’s natural immune system and creates
a body environment suitable for illnesses.
16

CHRONIC STRESS
The autonomic nervous system is divided into two; the
sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems.
We escape from justified dangers that we come across in
nature because of the sympathetic system’s stimuli; meaning
it is vital for our survival. In today’s world we face numerous
unjustified triggers, keeping us in constantly in sympathetic
mode (*flight and fight mode), withholding rejuvenation and
healing from occuring.
During flight and fight mode the body’s functions are aimed
simply to escape from that danger and survive.
In the parasympathetic mode, the heartbeats slow down,
vessels widen and the movements of the intestines become
faster. In contrary to sympathetic mode, parasympathetic
mode is associated with rest, relaxation and rejuvenation. The
only way the body can work at its optimum level is through
resting both the body and the mind.
Modern and stressful city life causes us to live under chronic
stress leading us to live our lives in a 7/24 flight & fight mode.
This puts our immune system at risk, stopping rejuvenation
and inviting chronic diseases into our bodies. Simply said, a
chain of non justified chronic stress can bring us to the edge
of acquiring chronic diseases.
*please check page 39 for flight or fight mode

17

MISMATCH:

Products
vs
Food & Nutrition
18

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

As we discovered, there is a significant mismatch between
the environment we are supposed to live in and the reality
that the 21st century offers us, as well as the consequences
it presents. Therefore there is a need to analytically approach
to the discrepancy that is being underlined and further
elaborate the areas of the mismatch.
Let’s start with food, which is the main driving fuel of our
lives, playing a significant role not only for our physical bodies
but also for our mental wellness. Nutrition is behind all the
chemical processes taking place in our bodies, including
our hormonal activities that govern our well being and brain
functions. It is very important to address food and nutrition
properly.
We keep ourselves mainly on a raw and vegan diet. Cooked
food, animal products and processed food are considered
as indulgence and are not recommended to be a part of
a healthy diet. Therefore we should keep indulgence at a
reasonable ratio of our diet max 20-30%.
Most people are very good when it comes to indulgence,
so we don’t have to add anything to that. We rather focus
on maintaining a healthy diet and minimizing the damage
resulting from indulgence.
19

Raw & Vegan
Diet
THERAPEUTIC DIETS
• Water Fasting
• Master Detox
• Green Juice Detox
• Green Salad Detox
• Anti-Aging Raw Nutrition
• Low Calorie Raw Nutrition
• Ketogenic Raw Vegan Nutrition

MAINTENANCE
• 80% Nutrition 20% Indulgence
• Intermittent Fasting
• Once a week water/juice fasting

INDULGENCE
• Eating solely for preasure and joy

20

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Therapeutic diets are precise formulas of special meal plans;
helping detoxification, supporting the healing processes of
different medical conditions. They are preferably done in a
disturbed environment of daily noise of life, if there are no
place for mistakes during a therapeutic diet.
Maintenance is done to avoid deterioration from one’s
optimum health and consists of healthy approche to nutrition.
During maintenance indulgence ratio is limited to take only
up to 20-30 % of the diet. The aim is to prevent diseases, to
heal, rejuvenate and establish new healthy eating habits for an
optimal life.
Indulgence indicates eating for reasons other than healthy
living. The indulgent eaters are emotional, non-mindful eaters
and go for addictive tastes rather than nutrition. Abuse of
indulgence eating leads to obesity and other chronic diseases
therefore indulgence should be restricted to a reasonable
ratio.

21

Healthy Nutrition
Pyramid
INDULGENCE

Dairy, Meat, Fish,
Sweet, Alcohol,
Black Tea & Coffee, etc.

SEEDS & NUTS

Raw & Unsalted Nuts, Almonds,
Walnuts, Cashew, Sunﬂower & Pumpkin
Seeds, etc.

FRUITS

Seasonal, Organic, Different Color Fruits

WHOLE GRAINS

Brown Rice, Barley, Qinoa, Oats, Whole Wheat, etc.

LEGUMES

Beans, Green Peas, Lentils, Sprouts, etc.

GREEN DARK LEAFY VEGETABLES

Low Calorie High Nutrition Vegetables; Kale, Spinach, Arugula, etc.

WATER & HERBAL TEAS

Pure & Alkaline pH 8.5 - 10, Herbel Teas; Ginger, Ginseng, Echinercia, Lemon, Spicy, etc.

Eat FOOD. Not too much. Mostly PLANTS. ~Michael Pollan
22

As it can be seen in the healthy nutrition pyramid, water is the
best food. 90% of our body composition at birth is composed of
water. To get the necessary amount we need for a healthy body
we should consume water (pure and alkaline water between
8 and 10 pH levels) and herbal teas (such as ginger, ginseng,
echinacea, sage, lemon, etc.) on a daily basis.
Green dark leafy vegetables should be the base of our diet.
They contain high nutrition per calorie. We recommend the
consumption of kale, spinach, arugula and such.
Legumes are good sources of plant based proteins and are best
when sprouted to increase their nutrition level. Beans, green
peas, lentils etc. are all legumes that can be sprouted.
Whole grains should be consumed in limited amounts because
of their high calorie content, nevertheless they can take part in
our diet. Some examples for whole grains are brown rice, barley,
quinoa, oats, whole wheat, etc.
Fruits are high in antioxidants and phytonutrients, but should be
consumed restrictively because of their sugar contents. Fruits
should be consumed in their seasons, organic and with variety of
colors.
Seeds and nuts are good and natural sources of healthy fat
(omega 3-6-9). Better consumed raw and unsalted.. It is vital to
acknowledge their high calorie nature and consume accordingly
in limited amounts.
Indulgence is the consumption of everything else. Dairy products,
meat, fish, sweets, alcohol, risotto, spaghetti, coffee, etc. must be
considered to be for entertainment rather than nutrition reasons.
Therefore, has to be done in moderation.
23

NUTRITION PER CALORIE LIST
1000 Kale

119

Grapes

34

Salmon

1000 Collard Greens

119

Pomegranates

31

Eggs

1000 Mustard Greens

118

Cantaloupe

31

Milk, 1%

1000 Watercress

109

Onions

30

Walnuts

1000 Swiss Chard

103

Flax seeds

30

Bananas

895

Bok Choy

98

Orange

30

Whole Wheat Bread

707

Spinach

98

Edamame

28

Almonds

604

Arugula

87

Cucumber

28

Avocado

510

Romaine

82

Tofu

28

Brown Rice

490

Brussels Sprouts

74

Sesame seeds

28

White Potato

458

Carrots

72

Lentils

28

Low Fat Plain Yogurt

434

Cabbage

65

Peaches

27

Cashews

340

Broccoli

64

Sunflower seeds

24

Chicken Breast

315

Cauliflower

64

Kidney beans

21

Ground Beef, 85% Lean

265

Bell Peppers

63

Green peas

20

Feta Cheese

205

Asparagus

55

Cherries

12

French Fries

238

Mushrooms

54

Pineapple

11

White Pasta

186

Tomato

53

Apple

11

Cheddar Cheese

182

Strawberries

53

Mango

11

Apple Juice

181

Sweet Potato

51

Peanut butter

10

Olive Oil

164

Zucchini

45

Corn

9

White Bread

145

Artichoke

37

Pistachio nuts

9

Vanilla Ice Cream

132

Blueberries

36

Oatmeal

7

Corn Chips

127

Iceberg Lettuce

36

Shrimp

1

Cola

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

HIGH NUTRITION PER CALORIE = HEALTHY EATING
This simple equation summarizes your health’s relation to
nutrient density of your diet.
Adequate consumption of micronutrients - vitamins,
minerals, and many other phytochemicals - without excessive
caloric intake is the key to achieving excellent health.
The ANDI (Aggregate Nutrient Density Index) ranks the
nutrient value of many common food products on the basis of
how many nutrients they deliver to your body for each calorie
consumed.
ANDI scores are based on thirty-four important nutritional
parameters. Food is ranked on a scale of 1-1000, where most
nutrient-dense and cruciferous leafy green vegetables scoring
1000.

25

Plant Based Ketogenic Diet
The ketogenic diet forces the body to burn fat around the
clock by keeping carbohydrates (sugars) low, simultaneously
making fat products the primary food. This diet focuses
mainly on healthy fats. Quality proteins and carbohydrates
coming from organic vegetables are complementary.
The main aim of the diet is to replace glucose and use keton
instead when running the cells.
Healthy cells are easily run by ketone bodies, whereas
defected cells such as cancer cells are unable to use ketone
bodies. In ketogenic diet defected cells can not continue to
survive. In this way weight loss, getting rid of abdominal fat
and a number of diseases achieved.

EXAMPLES TO VEGAN KETO FOOD
NATURAL SWEETENERS
FERMANTED FOODS
FIBER
BIOAVAIBLE PROTEINS
ANTI-OXIDANTS
HEALTHY FATS
26

Stevia, Monk Fruit, Non-GMO sugar alcohols
Pickles, Kimchi, Pickled ginger, Sauerkraut,
Coconut Milk Keﬁr
Shirataki Noodles, Raw or Dry Roasted Nuts
and Seeds (too much unsprouted nuts and
seeds can be challenging on the digestive track)
Pea Protein, Hemp Protein, Sprouted Nuts, Sprouted Seeds
Non-Starchy Veggies, Herbs & Low-glycemic fruit
(berries, lemons, limes)
Avocado, Olives, EV Olive Oil, Coconut Butter, Coconut Oil,
Coconut Milk, Coconut Flakes, Coconut Milk Keﬁr,
Coconut Milk Yogurt, Raw or minimally processed
dark chocolate

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

A ketogenic diet plan requires tracking the carb amounts in
the food eaten and keeping carbohydrate intake between 5-10
% of your daily food intake, protein intake can go up to 15%
and healthy fat takes up 75-80% of the food intake. The calorie
need is mainly provided by the stored fats in the body, defect
cells, and the fat intake.
The ratios as shown in the diagram ensure that person who is
undertaking the ketogenic diet go into stage where the ketons
produced from person’s fat act as healthy sugar source for
the body.
The main objective of the ketogenic diet is to maintain the
achieved high keton level in order to continue to burn fats and
eat up unwanted defect cells.

MACRONUTRIENT BREAKDOWN
15%
10%

FAT 75-80%
PROTEIN 10-15%

75%

CARBS FROM PLANTS 5-10%

27

pH Food Chart
The scale to measure the acidity or alkalinity of a substance
is called pH (potential hydrogen). This measurement is
determined by the amount of hydrogen ions. The more
hydrogen ions the greater the acidity of the substance being
measured, such as water.
This scale ranges from 0 to 14. Zero (0) is extremely acid
while 14 is very alkaline. Seven (7) is considered neutral and is
the pH of pure water.
The body constantly strives for homeostasis – the balance
at which the functions of the body can operate. The optimal
pH for most of our cellular fluids is slightly alkaline at 7.1 to
7.45 reflecting a healthy cellular cytoplasm. The target pH
for different tissues varies slightly but to give you an idea, a
slightly alkaline pH of 7.35-7.45 is considered ideal for our
blood.
Our metabolic processes have evolved to function optimally
within this pH range and it is one of our body’s primary tasks
to maintain the equilibrium.
On the other side we need to know that all metabolism
creates acidic wastes and these must be countered with
alkaline reserves on which to draw. This is our alkaline bank
account where the body will look for alkalinity in tissues
(minerals) and calcium in the bones.
28

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

If we have used up these reserves and drained the minerals
we find ourselves not only with low energy but also vulnerable
to various diseases.
Disease deepens in an acid state in our bodies which equates
with low oxygen supply to our tissues.
Alkaline forming foods (80%)

Acid forming foods (20%)

Leafy vegetables
Vine ripened fruits
Sprouts of small seeds and grains
Small seeds and grains
Fresh herbs
Vegetables especially greens
Freshly juiced vegetables
Sea vegetables
Fresh garlic and onions

All meats including fish and chicken
Dairy products like milk, cheeses, etc.
Eggs
All nuts except for almonds
Wheat, rye, oats
Refined and processed foods
Alcohol
Coffee
Vinegar

Other alkalizing activities

Other acid forming activities

Relaxing
Deep breathing
Moderate exercise
Rest/Sleep
Adequate water intake
Moderate sunshine
Positive thoughts
Laughter

Tobacco
Stress
Lack of sleep/rest
Lack of oxygen
Dehydration
Excessive or no exercise
Anger
Fear
29

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

One of our roles in supporting the body is to maintain an ideal
pH through dietary and lifestyle choices. A ratio of about 80%
alkaline forming to 20% acid forming is ideal. Environmental
pollution, including motor vehicle exhaust and other chemical
exposures have acidifying effect on our body. Stress, anger,
as well as the majority of “edible food-like substances” we
consume today are all acid forming. To balance this we must
eat a predominance of alkaline forming foods and partake in
“alkalizing activities.”

Healthy Food List
Antioxidant Foods: all berries, cinnamon, dark chocolate,
artichoke, cilantro, clove, turmeric, ginger, thyme.
Anti-inflammatory Foods: acai fruit
allium vegetables (chives, garlic, leeks, onions, scallions and
shallots), beans and lentils, green foods, hot peppers, nuts and
seeds, sprouts, turmeric.

30

FRUIT & VEGETABLES
NUTRIENTS BY COLOR
WHITE

YELLOW

RED

Immune system
Healthy colon
Prevents ulcers
Lowers cholesterol
Healthy heart

Healthy heart
Lowers cholesterol
Healthy joints/tissues
Supports eyesight
Prevents Cancer

Healthy heart
Decr. blood pressure
Skin protection
Helps cell renewal
Prevents Cancer

PURPLE

GREEN

Healthy heart
Healthy blood vessels
Helps memory
Anti-aging
Healthy urinary system

Improves digestion
Supports eyesight
Healthy bones
Immune system
Prevents Cancer

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

On the journey to optimal health, food has been a
cornerstone and a leading factor especially after processed
food was invented in the 1950s. In the last 50 years with the
encouragement of the food industry people became lazy in
their diet and food decisions they make. The changes in the
recent past have also had significant effects on people’s
minds; our minds are constantly being overloaded by various
types of triggers, including emails, phones, television, news,
social media and the internet. People’s minds are overloaded
with material that can eventually become damaging for their
mental health and cause conditions such as depression and
anxiety. We are now going to explore mental wellness and
how we can take full control over our minds, which is often
not an easy task.

32

The Mind
33

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

HAVING A PEACEFUL MIND
THROUGH THE USE OF DIALECTICAL
BEHAVIOUR THERAPY (DBT) SKILLS
& MINDFUL ATTITUDES
Dialectical behavior therapy teaches four critical skills that
can both reduce the size of emotional waves and help you
keep your balance when emotions become overwhelming.
• Mindfulness
• Emotion regulation
• Distress tolerance
• Interpersonal effectiveness

34

Being mindful is to be fully present with your
direct experience of the moment. Fully present
with whatever you are doing, thinking or feeling.
HERE AND NOW.

Mindfulness
35

Mindfulness makes up the base for any successful mental
health project that we lead. It requires us to be aware,
attentive and be in the moment.
Meditation, a fundamental part of the mindfulness concept, is
a great asset to be inserted in our lives.
The key to mindfulness is to understand and try to apply
mindful attitudes to our daily lives:
Non-Judging: When we begin practicing paying attention
to the activity in our minds, it is common to discover and
be surprised by the fact that we are constantly generating
judgments about our experiences. To be able to be truly
mindful we need to work on our non-judging skills.
Patience: Patience is a form of wisdom, it demonstrates that
we understand and accept the fact that sometimes things
must unfold in their own time.
36

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Beginner’s Mind: A mind that is willing to experience
everything as if it is being experienced by you for the first time.
Trust: Developing a basic trust in yourself and your feelings is
an integral part of meditation training.
Acceptance: Seeing things as they actually are in the present.
This skill is a must for a mindful living.
Letting Go: Cultivating the attitude of letting go, or nonattachment, is fundamental in the practice of mindfulness.

37

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Autopilot Mode
In the complicated environment we are situated in, we spend
most of our time living by autopilot mode.
When we slip into autopilot mode, our attention is absorbed
in our wandering minds and we are not really ‘present’ in our
own lives.
Driving as an activity is a perfect example of how we enter the
autopilot mode. When we are in the learning processes or
new to driving we are attentive and give full focus, however as
we develop our skills we tend to shift to autopilot mode and
start multitasking.
Living by autopilot mode, we often fail to notice the beauty
of life, fail to hear what our bodies are telling us and we all
too often become stuck in mechanical conditioned ways
of thinking and living that may be harmful to ourselves
or others. We also become vulnerable to anxiety, stress,
depression and reactivity.
Research shows that in fact, the more our minds ponder, the
less happy we become.
38

Flight or Fight Mode
Flight or fight responses are innately programmed to our
bodies for our survival.
The body perceives any kind of trigger (varying from
being chased by a lion to being late for a meeting) as a life
threatening danger. When responding to a trigger that is
perceived as a danger body enters a stress mode, blood
fueled by cortisol and glucose is pumped to the arms
and legs. Our bodies are not supposed to be in this mode
continuously, there is a definite need for space in between
two triggers for cooling down and rejuvenation reasons.
However, today the number of potential triggers and perceived
dangers have increased 100 folds and the time in between
triggers have reduced, making us a victim of chronic stress.
It is important to note that stress becoming chronic stress is a
significant factor contributing to health problems.

REJUVENATING MODE
Rejuvenating mode is the mode in which body is totally
relaxed and focused on repairing and recreating itself.
Humans are supposed to have only few moments of stress
during a regular day and rejuvenate in between. However in
today’s world we are faced with many unjustified triggers,
interrupting rejuvenation, leading us to a state of chronic
stress and diseases.

39

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Brain Waves &
State of Mind
40

Every part of our body vibrates to its own rhythm; brain has a
unique set of brain waves. There are five distinct brain wave
frequencies, namely Beta, Alpha, Theta, Delta and the lesser
known Gamma.
Being mindful and in a healthier state of mind requires to be
mostly in the low frequency waves such as Alpha and Theta.

41

40 - 200 Hz

13 - 40 Hz

7 - 13 Hz

4 - 7 Hz

0 - 4 Hz
42

GAMMA

Gamma brain waves are the fastest brainwave frequency with the smallest
amplitude. Although it is disputed among the scientists, the gamma waves
are thought to be connected to higher consciousness.

BETA

Beta waves are present when we are alerted, attentive, focused on a mental
activity, and engaged in problem solving, judgment, decision making. Being in
this wave frequency is only desirable in response to justified reasons. To be
in this wave frequency in unjustified contexts keeps us in a state of chronic
stress.

ALPHA

Alpha represents ‘the power of now’, being here, in the present. It is the
resting state for the brain. Alpha waves aid overall mental coordination,
calmness, alertness, mind/body integration and learning.

THETA

Theta occurs most often in sleep but is also dominant in deep meditation. It
is our gateway to learning, memory, and intuition.

DELTA

Delta is generated in deepest meditation and dreamless sleep. Delta waves
suspend external awareness and are the source of empathy. Healing and
regeneration are stimulated in this state, and that is why deep restorative
sleep is so essential to the healing process.
43

Trigger
Taste
Sight
Touch
Smell
Hearing
Toughts
Mood

tS ate of Being
Processing the
message within
referance frame

Mood
Social Life
Work
Education
Culture and Religion
Neighbourhood
Family and Friends
Genetic

Hormones signal
to physical body

Action
Mindful

44

Reaction

Not Mindful

Referance Frame
We were born inheriting our parents’ genetic structure.
The family we born into, the people and environment we are
immediately exposed to builds up our initial foundation reference.
The existing dominant culture and religion we born into has
effects on who we become. Schooling and education plants the
next layer for our growing reference frame.
Furthermore our working environment, social life and
experiences formulate an extra layer developing the frame and
our individual conceptual environments. The reference frame and
our environment determine how we read the world.
The conceptual environment and reference frame are essential
in how we perceive the world and what is happening around us.
All our behaviors, character and identity are formed as result of
these combinations.
The “I”, programmed from the beginning, forms the base of our
journey.
Whenever we develop the wrong formation, it is not at all easy to
reform behaviors and habits - changing formations like habits can
take years.
Reference frame can be seen as a hard wired code, determining
actions and reactions chosen and given in response to the
triggers that are faced in the moment.
45

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

TRIGGER
REFERENCE
FRAME
HORMONES
RELEASED
body is informed about our positioning (first here we are in a position
of interfering in case we are mindful)

ACTION / REACTION
(mindful responding after a conscious decision) or Reaction based
on autopilot behavior due to lack of not feeling the moment ahead.

46

Act & React
Mindfulness is being aware of ourselves, others, our choices
and actions. Therefore it is critical to embrace this practice
to be able to focus on mindful acting and prevent reacting
without mindful thinking. The difference between action and
reaction is that reacting is sporadic and emotional, whereas
acting is more balanced with rational thinking and can be
qualified as conscious decision making.
In order to consciously respond to triggers to the moments,
we have to analyze them and take time to absorb them
with the sense that directs our awareness. There is a space
between the trigger and response , in that space lies our
power to choose our response... Because, innately, we are
capable of responding in a unique way. So, when we activate
our conscious awareness, we take ourselves off autopilot
mode and position ourselves with proximity to being more
mindful living. Acting in Autopilot mode puts us into reactive
presence to our realities, keeps us away from mindful acting.

47

Mindset

Mindset is composed of Mind, Body & Spirit and these three form
the basis of everything.

We need the right mindset to convert our lives
into a life worth living.
Changing your life means changing your mindset.
To have high energy, good health, a beautiful life and the ability to
enjoy every moment we need to change our mindsets (move away
from our existing habits and move towards optimal habits).
48

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Developing A Growth
Mindset
When developing our mindsets we should work on forming
positive affirmations and sentences. An example could be to
use “I’ll try a different strategy” instead of “I give-up”.

INSTEAD OF...

TRY THINKING...

I’m not good at this
I give up
It’s good enough
I can’t make this any better
This is too hard
I made a mistake
I just can’t do this
I’ll never be that smart
Plan A didn’t work
My friends can do it

What am i missing?
I’ll use a different strategy
Is this really my best work?
I can always improve
This may take some time
Mistakes help me to learn
I am going to train my brain
I will learn how to do this
There’s always Plan B
I will learn from them
49

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Mind-Body-Spirit
Connection
The Body

As a Learning Tool
Systems
Organs/Cells
Brain
5 senses

ind
TAshThee MCreator
Personality
Will

Conscious
Subconscious

The Spirit

As The Observer
Love
Meaning
Purpose
50

Body-Mind-Spirit connection refers to our overall state of
“being” and explains how balanced we feel on all levels:
physical, emotional, mental and spiritual.
When we are in balance or in alignment we are able to
experience joy from everything we do. Achieving the balance
also allows us to treat others, ourselves and our bodies with
love and respect and have a sense of purpose.
We can think of the body as a learning tool for the mind
and spirit. What we create in the mind and the Spirit is
experienced by our bodies. Therefore; we, as observers,
watch and learn what happens around us through our bodies.
When we understand that we are the observers, we can gain
control over the mind and direct it with love, which allows us
to connect and relate with others in a more meaningful and
purposeful way.
The emotions signal that there is something going on in our
‘Body-Mind-Spirit’. When we apply mindful attention to our
emotions, ask what the meanings of them are, check in with
our environment for factors that we may not be aware of.
Our emotions can be thought of as messages that can help
guide us to a more desirable state or version of ourselves.
Justified emotions are the ones which play significant roles in
our life; unjustified ones are the ones that are invented by us
and put us in suffering , worrying other depleting emotional
states.
With mindful awareness we can support and awaken our
observer side and place ourselves back at the drivers seat of
our life.
51

52

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

As we are briefly going through some factors affecting
our well-being, it must be noted that there is a need for
developing routines and skills to cope with the challenges of
21st century modern day living, here and now.
All of our relationships with people , things and thoughts need
to be rewired for a better and optimal living. For this purpose
we should continuously develop and work on ourselves,
especially in the area of mindfulness and survival skills for
our complex world.
Some vital skills, needed in today’s world, will be outlined in
the next section…

53

Essential Skills For
Better Living
Radical acceptance: accepting the world as it is, not
swimming against current
Non - judgemental: you may have judgements, it is very
natural, however be aware about them and try to experience
the moment with beginner’s mind.
Assumption: don’t assume, try to observe your reality as it
comes. Assumtions are keeping you away from realities by
building up expectations that may not belong to the moment.

54

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Validation: this skill involves respecting others’ thoughts and
behaviors, thus letting others feel validated. You can validate a
person but still have different opinions or ideasYou should be able to communicate them without being
uncomfortable.
Using wise mind: wise mind is the intersection of your
emotional mind and rational mind. Being in wise mind
territory while living the moment is the best way of
approaching life.
Being grateful: life is there to be experienced with all
variaties, we should not assume that we will be stuck with
a version of reality, be ready for different colours, versions.
Being grateful to simple things. Such as you could wake up
this morning also and you have running water.

55

Steps Of Changeing
A Habit
To have a different life, we need to create a new chain of habits.
There are 3 steps of change:

BEING INSIGHTFUL
• Be aware of the problem
• Put it under spotlight

SURRENDER
• Accept it as it is - No negotiation

EXECUTION
• Try new picked routines- Create new habits
Changing your habits is not instantaneous and it is not always
an easy process but with time and effort our minds can be
transformed and almost any habit can be reshaped.
Habits are autopilot set of acts wired as a part of our
reference frame. They take time to develop and it takes some
time to eradicate and replace them with healthy ones.
56

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

57

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Life Is A Chain Of
Habits
A habit is like a formula that our brain
automatically follows:
When I am exposed to a CUE, I will follow a
ROUTINE in order to get a REWARD. In the
beginning the reward is in the picture, however
later on, we start to execute the routine in
autopilot mode and reward disappears from
the habit circle.
Cue: The reminder or trigger that stimulates the habitual act.
The reason why it is hard to identify the cues is because there is
too much information around us and we are bombarded by them.
Only when we exercise mindfulness we may be recognize the
cues.
To identify a cue we need to scrutinize our behaviors and
behavioral patterns. If we are trying to map out the cue for ‘going
to the cafeteria and buying a chocolate chip cookie’ habit, you can
write down the things that are present in the moment when the
urge hits you.
58

Routine

Cue/Trigger

Reward

Routine: The action you take, the Habit itself.
To understand your own habits, you need to identify the
components of your loops. Once you have diagnosed the loop
of a particular behavior you can look for ways to rewire the old
bad habits with new new healthy ones.
If a habit has to be changed, routines could be swapped with
healthier new routines.
Reward: The benefit you get from doing the habit.
Although we are often not conscious of it, cravings may drive
our behaviors and decisions. Rewards are powerful because
they satisfy cravings . To figure out which cravings are driving
particular habits, it’s useful to experiment with different
rewards. This might take a few days, weeks or longer.
Rewards are there in the beginning in the different formats
, later on they may lose their effect on us, even then the
habit lasts. The habit becomes an autopilot act without the
promise/experience of reward.
59

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Habit Mapping
Once you detect your habits, you can use this habit map that
will help you to understand the triggers for that habit.
• What emotional state pushes you towards this certain
behaviour or what kind of emotional state you are in while
exercising this habit?
• What time of the day are you repeating this habit?
• Where is this habit taking place – location?
• Who triggers the habit? Who is with you when this habit
takes place?
• What could be your strategy for changing it and put
“KISS”(Keep, Improve, Start, Stop) in action?

60

Habit Change
Exercise
(K.I.S.S.)

KISS is a method that helps you to categorize and prioritize your
habits. You decide whether you Keep, Improve, Start or Stop a
specific habit.

HABIT EXAMPLES

KEEP

IMPROVE

START

STOP

1. Diabetic person consuming sugar
2. Smoking 5 cigarettes per day
3. Procrastination habit
4. Checking the time many times 		
when you are on your way to an
appointment

HIGH

HIGH

LOW

IMPORTANCE

URGENCY
LOW

EX-1

EX-2

Strategy: Stop consuming
sugar asap

Strategy: Cigarettes are bad for
you in the long run

EX-3

EX-4

Strategy: Setting goals

Strategy: It’s not going to
change your arrival time

61

Have Your Own K.I.S.S.
HABITS
EX.

Smoking a package of cigarettes daily

EX.

Walking 10 min. daily

EX.

Starting the days with a glass of
alkaline water with lemon

EX.

Not practicing yoga

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
62

KEEP

IMPROVE

START

STOP

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

63

Movement

Our body is designed for living a physical and active life.
However, these days people often sit down at desks for
hours only using their fingers to type while working or
using their eyes to watch TV or play computer games
– actions that require bare minimum movement. This
has resulted in limited genuine activity and a culture of
gym goers has emerged, where the only proper exercise
some people get is through an hour a couple of times a
week spent at the gym. Some people don’t even get that
as they don’t exercise at all.

64

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Movement, exercise or sport, whatever you like to call it…
being active is a must for optimum health. Moving is as
beneficial as best medicines. Immobility does not provide
what mobility offers; when an active body calms; it can rest,
heal and renew itself. Whereas immobility tires a person out
it cannot be rested and tiredness causes unhappiness. Activity
leads circulation of lymphatic system to detox or rejuvenate
the body while immobility indicates lack of lymphatic system
circulation results in the accumulation of toxins and paves the
way to chronic diseases.

65

There are among many different ways of approaching your
mobility, two effective ways in which you can go on about
increasing your mobility, starting from today.
• First, find a yoga or pilates class that you enjoy and commit
to doing it once a week. An hour per week of yoga, pilates
or yin yoga can make a big difference.
• Secondly, try exercises in intervals. 30 seconds an
intensive pace, 90 seconds in slow pace (recovery time, in
between intensive workout sets to get your breath back).
Totaling up to 2 minutes repeated 8 times gives you a
perfect training of 16 minutes daily followed with some
stretching.

66

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Interval training, training and exercises
done with your own body weight can help
you build both strength and endurance in
shorter time.
A 20 to 30-minute routine composed
of mix of interval exercises and body
weight exercise options can be a quick
and effective workout solution to be done
anywhere; at home, work, outdoor areas
etc.

67

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Salute to the Sun
Surya Namaskar is a set of 12 asanas done one
after another as one stance. It provides perfect
flexibility to our body. Sunrise and sunset are
considered to be the best time to be practicing this
set of moves.
68

1

7

2

8

3

9

4

10

5

11

6
12

69

Environment

70

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

The environment we should be living in is nature, however
when we look at modern day society and its conditions
there is almost no sign of natural living and instead we are
surrounded by streets, buildings, cars, chemically painted
walls, furniture made of synthetic material and clothing made
from chemical content etc.
Basically, those who live in in big cities spend a major part
of their lives in man- made environments far away from the
nature. We cannot defy reality, however we need to be aware
of our conditions, take certain measures to improve them and
strive for optimal health.
Let’s see how we can improve our living environment...

71

Environmental
Factors
Out of more than 80,000 chemicals currently
used, most haven’t been adequately tested for
their long term effects on human health.
These chemicals lurk in everyday items:
furnitures, cosmetics, household cleaning
products, toys, and even food.
72

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

WHAT CAN YOU DO TO REDUCE
THE EXPOSURE?
• Avoid products with PFCs.
• Watch out for ready - made
boxed foods
• Avoid stain - resistant
products
• Avoid teflon,
• Avoid ”fluoro” or
”perfluoro.” in personal
care products
• Avoid vinyl windows and
doors.
• Avoid PVC packaging and
toys.
• Avoid vinyl shower curtains.
• Avoid vinyl food storage.

• Use wooden windows
and doors
• Use glass containers
• Use phthalate-free
cosmetics.
• Buy PBDE-free furniture
and electronics
• Avoid farmed fish opt for
wild salmon.
• Reduce animal fats.
• Watch for lead in paint &
dishware.
• Remove treated wood &
PVC.
• Protect drinking water.
• Be cautious with
thermometers that have
mercury.
73

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Ionised Air
Environmental pollution has hit a peak and taken over our air
as well as our water.
There are benefits of buying an air ionizer as you will be
guaranteed with appropriate breathing air for at least 8 hours
while sleeping. This simple investment could give us the
similar benefits of sleeping in a forest or beside a waterfall.

74

Ionised Water
The best way to guarantee that your drinking water is pure
would be to install a water purification and ionizing system.
This has proven to be a cost-effective and an easy way of
providing the best drinking water possible for yourself and
your family. All you have to do is to simply install your system
and you will transform your chemical filled tap water into a
toxic- free source. Using a good filtration system with ionizing
and alkalinizing ability is the best way to remove chemicals
from your drinking water and purify it. This will remove
almost 100% of toxins and leave you with ionized and alkaline
water that has healthy minerals.

75

Electro Magnetic
Smog

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Just over 100 years ago, human-beings did not experience
the same level of electromagnetic fields we experience today.
Electromagnetic field exposure is only increasing as we
buy new cell phones, additional home appliances, and other
electronic devices that creates it.
EMFs occur anywhere with electric power. Common sources
of electric and magnetic fields in the home appliances,
televisions, computers, and standard electrical wiring.
Refrigerators give off one of the highest EMFs among all
appliances.
The biological effects of EMFs are staggering. EMFs along
with the typical unhealthy factors lead to extreme damage to
our bodies and minds...
Some common techniques to reduce the side effects of EMFs
are grounding and using EMF shields (filters).
Electricity and other toxins create free radicals. Through
grounding, these free radicals are neutralised by the use of
earth’s free electrons and stop inflammation in the body.
Commonly used shields are QBCs (quantum balancing
crystals) and personal devices such as Q-Link.
77

Introduction
To Healing

78

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Chronic diseases are not binary phenomenon, they are
gradually evolving processes. We can talk about being 55 %
healthy on a scale of 100 % health etc. but when we cross
the symptom line we medically become sick.
Modern medicine deals with symptoms, bringing us only
under the symptom line. We are medicated to deal with
the symptoms, then we create a number of new symptoms
caused by medication entering a vicious cycle of medications.
We should be aware that real healing and maintenance of
long term optimum health is our job and not the responsibility
of medical industry.
Medical industry’s sole responsibility is to bring us under the
symptom line, in other words managing only the symptom
through pharmaceutical drugs.
For a full healing we need to have a clean diet, a peaceful
mind and a healing environment. Depending on disease’s
severity, healing process may last from few months to a year.

79

EMERGENCY/ SYMPTOM
MANAGEMENT

DRUGS

SURGERY

MODERN MEDICINE

HEALING ENVIRONMENT
NATURAL THERAPIES
MINDSET

REAL HEALING

YOUR AREA OF RRESPONSIBILITY

Healing Pyramid

DIET

No HEALING will be long-term if these three factors do not
come together healthily:
Physical Wellness + Emotional Wellness + Mental Wellness
80

MANAGING YOUR HEALTH
A JOURNEY FROM ILLNESS TO HEALTH
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
is modern medicine’s attempt to get rid of the symptoms by using
medications, surgery and similar systems.
During every healing, after the emergency management, we
should not forget the need of starting A HEALING PROCESS, for
which the individual himself is responsible for and this may take
more than months.
FULL HEALING
After the emergency management/intervention, real healing
journey starts.
Since one of the main reasons for illnesses’ occurrence is the
toxic pollution, cleansing/detox is an important step for healing
process.
Correct nutrition and purification are the most important elements
of wilful healing. Removing toxic load and replenishing the system
with beneficial nutrients without putting any unnecessary stress
on the body is the first step in the process.
It is not possible to heal under stress. Every healing process
should be augmented with a serenity process. Being in
rejuvenation mode rather than fight and flight mode is essential.
Different natural therapies such as; high dosage of Vitamin C,
Omega-3 supplements etc. combined with proper nutrition and
purification will accelerate any healing process.
A healing environment is as important as everything else,
surrounded with the right people and physical environment
supports any healing process.

81

Symptoms & Healing
Surgery / Medical Attention
Symptoms

Full Healing

100% Health

* Medicine world is more focused on palliation rather than completely curing.

82

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Symptoms are not the reasons why we are sick, therefore
when we treat the symptoms we don’t actually heal
ourselves but we just avoid the symptoms.
A real healing can not be delegated to modern medicine,
whose main responsibility is to manage the symptoms or the
emergency around our diseases.
We need to take full responsibility for journey to optimum
health, as it is presented in the graph.

83

BECOME A NUTRITARIAN TO PAVE
THE ROAD TO OPTIMUM HEALTH
If we decide to attain our full life quality, we need to base our
diet on nutrition rather than taste (more correctly addicted
tastes). A good nutrition based diet can also let us experience
good taste too. Nutrition is vital in making and maintaining of
a well functioning body. Free yourself from unhealthy menus
and processed food – replace these with living wholefoods
that actually feed your body. Keep your indulgence under the
ratio of 20-30 percent of the food you take in.
When you indulge excessively, compensate it by doing some
fasting for a few days or a week – in the forms of juice or even
water fasting.

84

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

FOR OPTIMAL LIVING
DEVELOP PEACE WITHIN YOURSELF
& WITH YOUR ENVIRONMENT
We need to free ourselves from judgments about ourselves
and others; we need to be free from emotional baggage that
has affected us from the past. By leaving emotional trauma
behind, we can start a new life with right mindset and right
approach to things happening around us. We need to have a
purpose based on that we should form a new life that fulfills
us.
Fulfillment is the base for long lasting happiness, in order
to reach this point there should be meaning or several
meanings that act as the driving forces of our lives.

85

9 Steps For
Optimal
Health
GOOD QUALITY SLEEP
FOLLOWING A PLANT BASED DIET
LESS MEAT t& DAIRY CONSUMPTION
LESS FISH CONSUMPTION
DRINKING WATER
FASTING
EXERCISE
MINDFULNESS
SOCIALISING
86

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

7.

8.
9.

Sleep early and wake up early at least 7-9 hours per
night (not less, not more).
Follow a PLANT-BASED diet. Eat plenty of fruits,
vegetables, nuts and seeds.
Reduce your meat consumption to small portions 1-2
days per week and of course, exclude processed meat
from your diet completely.
Drink sufficient water, at least 40ml per kg, and support it
with different herbal teas, juices, soups and smoothies.
Consume healthy fats: you can acquire healthy fats from
raw nuts and seeds, avocado etc. Omega 3 fatty-acids
DHA and EPA are key for our health.
FAST. You don’t have to fast every day. 2 days per week
skip breakfast and eat from 12- 8 pm. Do 1 or 2 annual
long fasting programs lasting at least 7 days, by joining a
detox center.
Exercise daily, try to get a mix of aerobic and anaerobic
exercises. Aerobic and anaerobic exercises have their
pros and cons and one shouldn’t be prioritised over the
other if general health is the goal in mind.
Practice some form of mindfulness. Whether this is
through meditation, other spiritual practices like yoga.
Find a way to be mindful for at least 20 minutes per day.
Spend time with friends and family. Socializing is an
important part of our overall state of wellbeing.
87

• Observe the food on your plate
• Use something to remind you to eat more mindfully, like a
special fork etc.
• Smell, taste and bite slowly
• Put your knife and fork down after each bite.
• Chew well and enjoy the taste and flavours of your food
• Be silent while chewing
• Swallow your food and feel it move downwards
• Repeat the same routine for each meal
88

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Mindful Shopping
• Set your budget
• Make a list of items you REALLY need
• Set a certain criteria for your shopping products: Are they
better for your health? Better for the planet and society?
• Be present while shopping. Bring yourself back to the
place you are and don’t get carried away with your
thoughts.
• Read labels on every product you are interested in buying.
• Remember that at any moment, you can breathe slowly
and slow the pace of your thoughts and movements. Don’t
rush take your time.
• Once you are about to make a purchase, make sure you are
comfortable with how you feel from the inside out, does it
feel right?

89

Meditation

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

• Create time and space: choose a regular time each day.
• Set a time: start with 5 minutes and increase this up to 15-40
minutes.
• Find a comfortable sitting position: you can sit cross-legged on
the floor, on the grass, on the chair.
• Check your posture: sit up straight, hands in a comfortable
position.
• Take deep breaths: Deep breathing helps settle the body and
establish your presence in the space.
• Direct your attention to your breathing.
• Keep your attention on your breathing.
• Repeat these 2 steps during your meditation
• Be kind to yourself: don’t feel upset if focus occasionally drifts
or you fall asleep.
• Prepare for a soft landing: When the timer goes off, keep your
eyes closed until you are ready to open them again.

91

Mindful Walking
• Preparing: Before you begin to walk, prepare for the experience
by focusing on your breathing. Focus on the rhythmic coming
and going of the breath.
• Walking: Focus on your steps. Go back to the most primitive
steps and move forward at a slow, even and relaxed pace. Begin
with the right foot and take one step forward: “Lift leg, place foot,
set foot solidly, deliberately straighten the knee (especially if
climbing) and follow through.
• Noticing: As you stand, become aware of your feet being in
contact with your shoes and the ground. Feel the weight of your
body down through your torso, legs, heels and toes. Gently move
your neck, arms and shoulders. Bend your knees slightly.
• Seeing: On your mindful walk, focus closely on what you see
around you — the people, the surroundings, the buildings. Look
up. Notice the colors, the light and the shadows.
• Hearing: Before and during the walk, make it your intention to
focus on hearing, and to do it without judging.

92

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

• Smelling: This is about bringing your awareness to a
specific sense which is central to our rich experiencing of
the world. You may slow down to savor the scent and pause
to find and appreciate a flower around you.
• Touching: Touching is about developing a greater awareness
of the world around us. Touch a petal or leaf, and feel the
texture in the tips of your finger.
• Feeling: In life, we continually experience positive, negative
and neutral thoughts and emotions. Notice your mood
now, positive or negative, observe it and let it pass — try
observing your moods and emotions in a non-judgmental
way on the basis of the idea ‘they will inevitably pass’.
• Finishing: When you have completed your walk, and before
returning to whatever you must attend to for the rest of the
day, focus your attention to the present moment.

93

Mindfull Living
Icons
CARE ABOUT
OTHERS

94

95

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Life List
MORNING ROUTINES
• Upon waking up, roll from side to side in your bed with your
knees held back towards your stomach - 10 times back and
forth & 10 times to the sides
• Refrain from checking your phone, emails or switching on the tv
for the first 30 mins of waking up try to use this time to meditate
or read some positive affirmations
• Develop a mindfulness practice – something as small as being
mindful when brushing your teeth in the morning
• Look out of the window and be grateful that you are fortunate
enough to see another day
• Drink 2 glasses of water - plain or with lemon juice or apple
cider vinegar
• Do some form of home exercise depending on how you feel,
such as – stretching.
• Cardio in the form of either interval training (30 seconds fast/90
seconds slow - running 8 times making a total of 16 mins) or
20 minutes on a trampoline with or without dumbbells. You can
also give inversion table a try.
96

A 21 Day Change Guide
Useful & Quick Tips For A Healthy Life

• Take a daily nutrition shot - some kind of green herbal
mix (green chain, vitamineral green etc) mixed into your
favourite juice (recommended cucumber, lemon juice,
ginger or pommegranade, grape fruit, ginger)
• Drink an apple/ginger juice or any other nutritious natural
juices
• Take daily supplements or add some of them to your juicesuch as curcumin, omega 3, etc
• Make a plan for your day but be prepared agendas may
change so you may need to be flexible
• Show love to everyone around you before you leave home in
the morning

97

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

ON THE WAY TO WORK/ACTIVITY
• Drive mindfully – take your focus away from your thoughts and
observe your driving environment.
• Listen to some relaxing music or any other kind of music that
makes you feel good
• Be ready to greet everyone positively that you come into contact
with during your journey
• Try getting off public transport and walking to the last stop or
mile
• Arrive at work or your specific destination with positive energy

98

AT WORK
• Make yourself comfortable and coordinate with your
colleagues
• Check your agenda and clear your mailbox
• Organise your agenda by prioritising tasks; by putting them
in order of relevance
• Execute your agenda or to-do list for the day
• Make sure your meeting stays within the scope of the
subject matter and try not to diversify
• Make sure you wrap up your meetings properly with a
specific outcome and to do list to follow
• Make sure you stay hydrated
• Limit your tea & coffee intake (also add some kind of butter/
oil to your coffee to avoid the caffein peaks)
• Choose herbal teas & oloong tea instead of black tea or
coffee
• Snack on superfoods or healthy snacks (nuts/crackers/
fruits) instead of lunch if possible
• If you are out for lunch try not to eat too much and always
choose healthy options
• Get out of your office for breaks and take in some fresh air
when possible and have walking meetings
• Evaluate your day, clear your mailbox as much as possible
and plan your agenda for the next day
99

RETURNING FROM WORK
• Drive mindfully, disconnect from your work life and activities
• Prepare your mind for your next environment whether that’s
family, friends, gym,walk, nature etc

AT HOME
• Show your loved ones some love and affection by giving them a
hug, show them you appreciate them
• Start to wind down and settle for the evening
• Have a new stimulating activity once or twice a week to break
your routine
• Enjoy a vegan meal. Eat raw as much as possible
• Balance your solo activities with group activities
• Socialize but make sure to spare time for yourself and have
some alone time at certain moments
• Reduce news intake, increase reading, learning and discovering
meaningful things
• Start a gratitude journal by writing down 2-5 things you are
grateful for each night
• Prepare yourself for sleeping - stop using your phone, computer
or any other activities where virtual light and brain activity is
present; focus on meditation listening to music and doing some
relaxing activities at least one hour before
• Take melatonin (5- 20 mg) and probiotics before you go to sleep
• Listen to” brainwave 35 binaural “ app program deep sleep for
around 20 minutes
100

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

IN GENERAL
• Take enzymes with all of your meals
• Drink at least 2-3 litres of water per day
• Try to extend fasting hours
• Try to reduce the number of meals you eat throughout the day
• Try to eat highly nutritious food rather than be so concerned
with taste
• Never forget to maintain a good ratio between indulgence and
feeding yourself as a source of fuel 70/30 or 80/20
• Consider snacking as another meal
• Validate other people when you get the chance
• Practice gratitude and appreciation for your life
• Accept others and the world as it is
• If you drink alcohol drink responsibly no more than a glass, 4
cc per hour and for each glass make sure you drink a glass of
water
• Share your food if you eat out
• Think positive
• Try to commit yourself to an act of kindness everyday no
matter how big or small

101

• Train your mind to see the good in every situation
• Accept the things you cannot change
• Don’t forget that everything comes and goes
• Try to focus on opportunities rather than threats
• Try to find solutions rather than focus on problems
• Listen to other people and make sure they understand that you
are listening to them
• Show respect to everybody even if they have the total opposite
views or stand points to you
• Be happy and confident with yourself – practice self-love
• Have compassion for yourself and others
• Move yourself as much as possible
• Have air ionizer in your bedroom while you sleep to improve the
air quality
• Invest in a water ionizer at home, you get a good quality of water
most of the time
• Try to protect yourself from electromagnetic smog, keep your
mobile or other electronic gadgets out of your bedroom
• Put your mobile on flight mode or switch off when you sleep
• Add your favorite practices to this list and let us know

102

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

• Take aways for a better life
• Accept yourself as it is, accept others as they are
• Don’t get torn in to pieces between what you want and what
others want you to do
• Don’t become a dead fish and swim along with the stream
• Enjoy your own will within the limits of the moment, don’t
fight the moment
• It is ok to fail, it is ok to give up, it is ok to push the limits but be
mindful about constraints and boundaries
• Don’t insist to convince others if they are not ready for your
thoughts, don’t forget you cannot pour water to a full glass
• Wisdom is about how to handle mistakes or difficult
moments in a proper way

103

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Supplements
& Herbs
Since most of the food we consume is depleted in nutrients,
food supplements have become a necessity for leading a
healthy life in today’s world. They are excellent sources of
supplementary nutrition.
• To reduce the inflammation in your body and enhance
healing you can use anti-inflammatory supplements such
as; Bosmeric –RS, Cayenne pepper, Curcumin, Ginger,
Omega 3-6-9
• With aging we lose our ability of digesting food properly
and mostly we do the wrong combination of food. For a
good digestion you can use Digestive Enzymes, Betaine
-HCL
104

• Sleep deprivation is a common issue. The less we sleep
the more stressed and tired we get. To reduce sleeping
problems you can use Melatonin, Tryptophan, 5 -HT
• Apart from animal based protein sources, it is always
good to go for plant based sources, such as Liquid Aminos,
Spirulina Pacifica, Chlorela and Bio-Astin
• A healthy gut flora is one of the most important
components of our wellbeing. If you are experiencing
constipation, indigestion, bloating, bad breath then you
should look for different sources of probiotics (beneficial
bacteria) such as: Probiotic capsules, Kambucha.
• Support your immune system with Vitamin C capsules,
Zinc, B Complex, and other mineral/vitamin blends.
• Fiber plays an important role in our daily diet and
Psyllium husk powder or capsules are one of many fiber
supplements you can use.
• Make sure your supplements cold processed and food
grade
105

Healthy Recipies
DEVELOPING A MORNING ROUTINE
ACTIONS UPON RISING
• Tongue scraping & dry brushing
• 500ml of warm water with lemon or
apple cider vinegar + liquid aminos
• 10 minutes of stretching & yoga
• 20 minutes of walking or exercise
of your choice (minimum 3 times a
week, if possible everyday)
• 5 minutes of stretching after
• Shower (to experience water’s life
giving...xx)

106

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

START YOUR MORNING WITH;

Apple Cider
Vinegar +
Amino Acid
• 350 ml water
• 5-10 cc apple cider vinegar
• 5-10 cc Udo’s liquid amino
acid(optional)
*Mix in a glass.
107

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

A REFRESHING BREAKFAST;

Alkalize
(Green Juice)
108

• 300 gr cucumber
• 50 gr spinach
• 50 gr chard
• 50gr arugula
• 50 gr parsley
• 1 celery stalk
• 1 lemon peeled
*Use a slow juicer if possible

NOURISHING THROUGH OUT THE DAY;

Turmeric Latte
• 350ml almond milk
• 1 table spoon turmeric powder
• 1 teaspoon cinnamon powder
• 1 teaspoon cardamom powder
• 1 teaspoon ginger powder
• ¼ teaspoon chilli powder
• 2 drops vanilla extract
*Mix all ingredients with a shaker

109

A MUST!

Almond Milk
• 1 glass of raw almond
• 3 glasses of alkaline water
*Almonds needs to be soaked at least 7-8 hours in water.
After you have drained the almonds mix them again with
water using a high speed blender. Your almond milk is
actually ready but If you would like, you can filter using a
piece of thin cloth. Stored in a glass container, it stays fresh
for 3 days and must be kept in the fridge.

110

INDULGE WITH;

Bullet Proof
Coffee
• ½ a spoon of organic coffee
• ½ a spoon of cacao butter or coconut oil
• ½ a teaspoon of cacao powder (optional)
• 200 ml of boiling water
*Mix all ingredients in a fast blender; low speed to fast speed
or just stir with spoon.
111

HEALTHY DESSERTS;

Chia Pudding
• 250 ml almond milk
• 60-100 gr blackberry or another kind of fruit - your choice
• 1 table spoon of agave syrup
• 3 table spoons of chia seed
*Mix all the ingredients in a fast blender except for the chia seeds.
Add the seeds later and mix it for 1 or 2 rounds. If you have the
time, mixing the chia seeds with a fork is a better way. Your chia
pudding will be ready.

112

A Quick Guide For Changing Your Life
Quick & Useful Tips For Healthy Living

Avocado Banana
Chocolate Pudding
• 2 avocados
• 6 dates
• 1 banana
• 3 table spoons of cocoa powder
• 2 drops of vanilla extract
• 1cup coconut or almond milk
*Mix all ingredients until it
reaches a pudding texture in a
speed blender.

h

l

y

ful

Lif

e

Us e
&

Qu

ick

T i p s Fo r A

He

alt

h

l

y

ful

Lif

e

Us e
&

Qu

ick

T i p s Fo r A

He

alt

